---
layout: page
title: Courses
permalink: /courses/
---

Below are my courses from [Pluralsight](https://www.pluralsight.com/authors/xavier-morera), sorted using my course analytics ranking (highest to lowest).

## Courses

- [Core Concepts of Generative AI for Developers](https://www.pluralsight.com/courses/developers-core-concepts-generative-ai)
  Generative AI revolutionizes how developers create, communicate, and innovate. In this course, Core Concepts of Generative AI for Developers, you’ll explore the fundamental concepts behind LLMs and how transformers power them. First, you’ll learn how Gen AI can generate text, code, and visuals in a fraction of the time and cost. Next, you’ll explore how modern applications use retrieval-augmented generation and multimodal inputs. Finally, you'll discover how intelligent agents scale productivity. By the end of this course, you’ll have the conceptual tools and mental models to confidently explore and apply generative AI in your own workflows.

- [Developing Generative AI Applications with Python and Open AI](https://www.pluralsight.com/courses/generative-ai-developing-applications-python-openai)
  Generative AI is a turning point in human history. Those who leverage LLMs will be more productive, creative, efficient, and will be able to achieve more with less. In this course, Developing Generative AI Applications with Python and OpenAI (ChatGPT), you’ll gain the ability to create generative AI applications. First, you’ll learn about the fundamentals of generative AI models, including their architecture, training processes, and applications. At this point you’ll learn how to write good prompts, which is an extremely valuable skill. Next, you’ll familiarize yourself with the OpenAI API and the available models, third you’ll use the API to generate human-like responses to questions or generate content based on your prompts. Moving forward, you will learn how to create a basic chatbot. Finally, you’ll learn how to train a model using your own data. When you’re finished with this course, you’ll have the skills and knowledge of how to create a generative AI application using the OpenAI API and Python.

- [C# Best Practices](https://www.pluralsight.com/courses/c-sharp-10-best-practices)
  Maintaining code is not easy, especially when it is poorly written and hard to understand. In this course, C# Best Practices, you’ll learn how to create clean code. First, you’ll learn the clean code principles. Next, you’ll discover which are the coding conventions and guidelines that you need to follow when writing code, including how to and when to refactor. Finally, you’ll learn how to create testable code. When you’re finished with this course, you’ll have the skills and knowledge of clean code needed to write code that is easy to maintain and extend, by following the C# best practices and coding conventions.

- [Core Concepts of Generative AI for Developers](https://www.pluralsight.com/courses/generative-ai-developers-core-concepts)
  Generative AI will not replace you, but someone using it will. In this course, Core Concepts of Generative AI for Developers, you’ll learn about the breadth, opportunity, and recent developments in the current Generative AI market. First, you’ll learn how Gen AI is changing the way business is done and revolutionizing the enterprise. Then, you'll explore the core concepts of Generative AI that you need to know to create the applications of the future. Finally, you’ll learn the different types of categories available in the Gen AI space, namely based on text, images, audio, and video.. When you’re finished with this course, you’ll have the skills and knowledge of the core concepts of Generative AI needed to understand what you can do to create epic applications.

- [Integrating Generative AI for Developers](https://www.pluralsight.com/courses/integrating-generative-ai-developers)
  Integrating Gen AI into your application unlocks a whole new set of functionalities, but you have to make sure you integrate in the right way. In this course, Integrating Generative AI for Developers, you’ll learn what you need to know to add Gen AI into your application. First, you’ll explore the key technical requirements and dependencies for Gen AI deployments. Next, you’ll learn how to architect Gen AI powered applications that scale. Third, you will learn how to create a phased rollout strategy. Finally, you’ll learn how to establish performance metrics and monitoring processes for Gen AI systems. When you’re finished with this course, you’ll have the skills and knowledge of integrating Gen AI needed to enhance your applications with Gen AI functionality.

- [AI-powered Python Applications: Building APIs for Generative AI Models](https://www.pluralsight.com/courses/ai-powered-python-applications-building-apis-generative-ai-models)
  Let's build secure, high-performance APIs for AI applications using Python! This course covers REST API basics, integrating generative AI models, optimizing model inference, implementing security measures, and monitoring API performance for real-time AI capabilities. You'll explore how to integrate Python-based models with API backends and enhance performance through model inference techniques, batching, and optimization. In this course, AI-powered Python Applications: Building APIs for Generative AI Models, you'll harness the power of AI in production environments. First, you'll dive into creating REST APIs that effectively serve generative AI models, such as text generation, summarization, and data enrichment. Next, you'll discover how to optimize model inference through techniques like batching and caching to achieve high performance. Finally, you'll implement critical security measures, including user authentication, authorization, and rate-limiting, to ensure API reliability in real-time applications. By the end of this course, you’ll gain insights into creating scalable, secure APIs that bring generative AI functionalities into real-world application, providing seamless, AI-driven experiences in applications that require real-time responses.

- [OpenAI: Prompt Engineering](https://www.pluralsight.com/courses/openai-prompt-engineering)
  Generative AI enhances worker productivity and has changed how businesses operate. However, the output of an LLM is only as good as the prompt it receives. In this course, OpenAI: Prompt Engineering, you’ll learn by example how to design and create effective prompts that help the LLM to produce improved outputs. First, you’ll explore what prompt engineering is as well as learn how to navigate the prompt console. Next, you’ll discover best practices for prompting, how to write better prompts, and will learn about other advanced features. Finally, you’ll learn about the limitations you may face when working with an LLM, like the context window. When you’re finished with this course, you’ll have the skills and knowledge of prompt engineering needed to craft effective prompts that will produce the desired outputs from OpenAI’s ChatGPT 4.

- [Developing Spark Applications with Python & Cloudera](https://www.pluralsight.com/courses/spark-python-cloudera)
  At the core of working with large-scale datasets is a thorough knowledge of Big Data platforms like Apache Spark and Hadoop. In this course, Developing Spark Applications with Python & Cloudera, you’ll learn how to process data at scales you previously thought were out of your reach. First, you’ll learn all the technical details of how Spark works. Next, you’ll explore the RDD API, the original core abstraction of Spark. Finally, you’ll discover how to become more proficient using Spark SQL and DataFrames. When you’re finished with this course, you’ll have a foundational knowledge of Apache Spark with Python and Cloudera that will help you as you move forward to develop large-scale data applications that enable you to work with Big Data in an efficient and performant way.

- [Importing Text Files in Python](https://www.pluralsight.com/courses/python-importing-text-files)
  Loading data is one of the most important skills you can have. Do you know which is one of the most powerful and widely used languages to work with data? If you guessed Python, you are right. In this course, Importing Text Files in Python, you’ll gain the ability to load in the most efficient way text and tabular data. First, you’ll explore how to import text and flat files. Next, you’ll discover how to load numerical data using Numpy. Finally, you’ll learn how to load and import tabular data using Pandas. When you’re finished with this course, you’ll have the skills and knowledge of importing text and flat files needed to load numerical and tabular data in Python.

- [Choosing Generative AI Tools and Technologies](https://www.pluralsight.com/courses/generative-ai-tools-technologies-choosing)
  There’s too much noise in the AI landscape, and choosing the right generative AI tools and technologies is more complex than ever. In this course, Choosing Generative AI Tools and Technologies, you’ll gain the ability to evaluate and select the tools that best fit your organization’s needs using the most current information available. First, you’ll explore the key factors that should guide your decisions, including cost, privacy, scalability, compatibility, and ease of use. Next, you’ll discover how to assess AI tools for personalization, multimodal capabilities, and how AI agents can support business operations. Finally, you’ll learn how to compare the strengths and limitations of different GenAI platforms across industries—and how to decide when to build in-house versus using third-party solutions. When you’re finished with this course, you’ll have the skills and knowledge of generative AI platforms needed to confidently align technology decisions with your business strategy.

- [Scrum Development with Jira & Jira Agile](https://www.pluralsight.com/courses/scrum-development-jira-agile)
  Having a great idea is just the start, implementation and execution are key. Improve your chances of success by using Agile development methodology and support your efforts with the right tools: Jira and Jira Agile (formerly GreenHopper). This course covers the following PMBOK® Process Groups: Planning, Executing, Monitoring and Controlling. This course covers the following PMBOK® Knowledge Areas: Project Time Management, Project Quality Management, Project Human Resource Management, Project Communications Management.

- [Machine Learning with Python](https://www.pluralsight.com/courses/machine-learning-python-practical-application)
  There are many ways to solve a problem using Machine Learning. Picking the right algorithm can make the difference between success or “burning down in flames”. In this course, Machine Learning with Python - Practical Application, you’ll learn how to pick the right ML model to solve your real-world problem. First, you’ll explore the characteristics of many real-world problems that can be solved using ML. Next, you’ll discover how each one of the types of algorithms can solve a particular problem and how. Finally, you’ll learn how to pick the right algorithm for your problem. When you’re finished with this course, you’ll have the skills and knowledge of ML needed to get started working on your problem and make the world a better place.

- [Working with Files in Python](https://www.pluralsight.com/courses/python-working-files)
  Understanding how to work with files is an absolute must when developing applications with Python. In this course, Working with Files in Python, you’ll gain the ability to create files, append text, read from files, find files, create and locate directories, and more. First, you’ll learn the differences between working with files in different operating systems. Next, you’ll explore how to create and locate directories. Finally, you’ll discover how to find, create, delete, and rename files as well as how to read and write to them. When you’re finished with this course, you’ll have the skills and knowledge of file handling needed to create Python applications that require working with files.

- [Kanban Development with Jira Agile](https://www.pluralsight.com/courses/kanban-development-jira-agile)
  Kanban development With Jira Agile is aimed to provide a smooth, quick, and easy path for developers and IT personnel to adopt Kanban within their organization. If you are already familiar with Kanban, this course will provide a great addition to your toolset: Jira Agile. But if you are not, Kanban is a great solution to development ADD (attention deficit disorder), corporate lack of focus, and company multitasking plague.

- [Create AI-assisted Product Documentation](https://www.pluralsight.com/courses/create-ai-assisted-product-documentation)
  Creating detailed and accurate product documentation can be time-consuming and challenging. In this course, Create AI-assisted Product Documentation, you’ll learn to leverage generative AI to streamline this process. First, you’ll explore how to set up and configure generative AI tools for documentation. Next, you’ll discover how to generate comprehensive and accurate product content using AI. Finally, you’ll learn how to refine and customize AI-generated documentation to fit specific product needs. When you’re finished with this course, you’ll have the skills and knowledge of AI-assisted product documentation needed to enhance your workflow and productivity.

- [Effective Cost Management for Generative AI](https://www.pluralsight.com/courses/effective-cost-management-generative-ai)
  Generative AI has immense capabilities and awe-inspiring potential, but it can also introduce significant costs that can erode ROI if left unchecked. In this course, Effective Cost Management for Generative AI, you’ll learn how to evaluate and optimize the total cost of ownership of generative AI implementations. First, you’ll explore the major factors that impact generative AI expenses. Next, you’ll discover techniques to reduce these costs, developing strategies for efficient model use and cutting unnecessary overhead. Finally, you’ll learn how to create long-term budgeting and forecasting models for AI initiatives. When you’re finished with this course, you’ll have the skills and knowledge to manage generative AI costs effectively, ensuring your AI-driven projects remain innovative yet financially sustainable.

- [.NET BCL Fundamentals](https://www.pluralsight.com/courses/dot-net-6-bcl-fundamentals)
  Developing any type of application usually requires a common set of functionality, for example reading and writing files, parsing XML/JSON, calling a web API, or other similar methods. In this course, .NET BCL Fundamentals, you’ll learn to use the built-in .NET libraries, also known as base class libraries (BCL). First, you’ll explore the common type system. Next, you’ll discover how to work with input and output including how to parse files from various data interchange formats. Then, you’ll learn how to work with and query data. Next, you’ll explore the security related namespaces. You will then move forward into network programming. Additionally, you’ll learn about how to globalize and localize applications. Then, you will explore how to debug an application as well as how to create multithreaded applications. Finally, you’ll explore some lesser known System and Microsoft namespaces that may come in handy from time to time. When you’re finished with this course, you’ll have the skills and knowledge of how to avoid reinventing the wheel by using the built-in .NET base class libraries needed to create an amazing .NET application.

- [Developing Spark Applications Using Scala & Cloudera](https://www.pluralsight.com/courses/spark-scala-cloudera)
  At the core of working with large-scale datasets is a thorough knowledge of Big Data platforms like Apache Spark and Hadoop. In this course, Developing Spark Applications Using Scala & Cloudera, you’ll learn how to process data at scales you previously thought were out of your reach. First, you’ll learn all the technical details of how Spark works. Next, you’ll explore the RDD API, the original core abstraction of Spark. Then, you’ll discover how to become more proficient using Spark SQL and DataFrames. Finally, you'll learn to work with Spark's typed API: Datasets. When you’re finished with this course, you’ll have a foundational knowledge of Apache Spark with Scala and Cloudera that will help you as you move forward to develop large-scale data applications that enable you to work with Big Data in an efficient and performant way.

- [Gemini: Prompt Engineering Best Practices](https://www.pluralsight.com/courses/gemini-prompt-engineering-best-practices)
  An LLM like Google Gemini is able to understand and process vast amounts of data, solve problems, and create new and creative content. In this course, Gemini: Prompt Engineering Best Practices, you’ll learn which are the recommended guidelines and tips for creating better prompts, known as best practices. First, you’ll explore how to use reference text, split tasks into smaller tasks, and how to give the model time to think. Next, you’ll discover how to use temperature and token limit settings. Finally, you’ll learn how to fine-tune prompts for specific applications. When you’re finished with this course, you’ll have the skills and knowledge of prompt engineering needed to create epic prompts following Google Gemini’s best practices.

- [OpenAI Chat Completions API](https://www.pluralsight.com/courses/chat-completions-api-openai)
  Conversational AI has moved from novelty to necessity. In this course, OpenAI Chat Completions API, you’ll learn to build powerful, multi-turn chat applications that feel truly interactive, just as talking to a human. First, you’ll explore how the Chat Completions API works, its role structure, and how it differs from older models. Next, you’ll discover how to structure prompts, control outputs, and manage conversational flow. Finally, you’ll learn how to maintain state, ensure context retention, and build robust applications that gracefully handle retries and rate limits. By the end, you’ll be ready to integrate scalable, reliable, and smart conversations, powered by AI, into your apps.

- [Join and Combine Data with T-SQL](https://www.pluralsight.com/courses/t-sql-join-combine-data)
  Combining data from multiple tables is essential in relational databases. In this course, Join and Combine Data with T-SQL, you’ll learn how to write and optimize INNER, OUTER, and CROSS JOINs as well as UNION and UNION ALL operations to build powerful multi-table queries. First, you’ll explore the fundamentals of joins and how to apply them effectively based on table relationships. Next, you’ll combine data across multiple tables using INNER, LEFT, and FULL joins—while learning to handle unmatched rows, aliases, and filters. Finally, you’ll advance into complex techniques like self-joins, CROSS joins, and merging result sets with UNION and UNION ALL, including performance considerations . By the end of this course, you’ll be confident in querying and combining relational data using SQL Server.

- [Choosing Generative AI Tools and Technologies](https://www.pluralsight.com/courses/choosing-generative-ai-tools-technologies)
  In today's rapidly evolving tech landscape, choosing the right generative AI tools is crucial for enterprise success. In this course, Choosing Generative AI Tools and Technologies, you’ll learn how to review, identify, analyze, and evaluate leading platforms like OpenAI, Claude, and Gemini, considering key factors such as cost, privacy, scalability, and compatibility. First, you’ll explore the strengths and weaknesses of each platform. Next, you’ll discover the advantages and drawbacks of using an existing platform vs. training your own LLM. Finally, you’ll learn about the steps that you may take in your Gen AI adoption plan. When you’re finished with this course, you’ll have the skills and knowledge of generative AI platforms needed to select the right one for you.

- [T-SQL Data Manipulation Playbook](https://www.pluralsight.com/courses/t-sql-data-manipulation-playbook)
  In this course, T-SQL Data Manipulation Playbook, you’ll learn foundational knowledge required to add records, modify data, and remove records in your SQL Server database. First, you’ll learn how to add data using the INSERT statement. Next, you’ll discover how to modify data using UPDATE, and how to remove data using the DELETE statement. Moving on, you’ll explore how to maintain database integrity with transactions. Finally, you'll examine some more advanced T-SQL statements that are not that common, but can help you with your daily work. When you’re finished with this course, you'll have the skills and knowledge of the T-SQL Data Manipulation Language needed to insert, update, and delete data in Microsoft SQL Server.

- [Getting Started with JSON in C# Using Json.NET 12](https://www.pluralsight.com/courses/getting-started-json-csharp-jsondotnet)
  The rising popularity of the web, mainly around JavaScript related technologies, has given JSON a great deal of importance over other data interchange formats, like XML. In this course, Getting Started with JSON in C# Using Json.NET 12, you will learn foundational knowledge that will allow you to work with JSON in .NET. First, you will learn the principles behind serialization fundamentals. Next, you will discover how to control and customize serialization using settings and attributes. Then, you will explore advanced serialization and deserialization techniques, including LINQ to JSON. Finally, you will learn about the future of Json.NET with .NET Core and .NET 5. When you're finished with this course, you will have the skills and knowledge needed to work with JSON in .NET.

- [Using Git with a GUI](https://www.pluralsight.com/courses/git-using-gui)
  Source code management is an absolute must and Git is the best source control system out. However, learning Git is usually a lot harder than it should be, especially from the command line. In this course, Using Git with a GUI, you’ll learn how to use Git with a very gentle learning curve. First, you’ll explore why Git is the way to go when using a source code management system. Next, you’ll discover the mechanics of using Git, followed by learning the advanced actions available that can save you from a headache or two. Finally, you’ll learn about the available branching strategies at your disposal. When you’re finished with this course, you’ll have the skills and knowledge of Git and SourceTree needed to work with Git using a GUI.

- [Working with JSON in .NET](https://www.pluralsight.com/courses/dot-net-6-json-working)
  JSON is one of the most widely used data interchange formats. It is used for serializing and transmitting structured data. In this course, Working with JSON in .NET, you’ll gain the ability to serialize and deserialize JSON in .NET. First, you’ll explore the basics of serialization and deserialization. Next, you’ll discover how to control serialization behavior in mostly any scenario available. Finally, you’ll learn how to use advanced techniques to optimize performance. When you’re finished with this course, you’ll have the skills and knowledge of JSON in .NET needed to work with JSON using the System.Text.Json base class library.

- [Programming Python Using an IDE](https://www.pluralsight.com/courses/python-programming-using-ide)
  Learning and becoming proficient with Python is one of the best decisions a coder can make. The simplicity of Python, along with the many libraries available make it one of the most productive languages you can use. This course, Programming Python Using an IDE, will help you use an IDE to take your coding skills one level higher! First, you will explore the selection of popular IDEs and how they can help you improve your productivity. Next, you will learn about the many features that make IDEs great for creating applications including syntax highlighting, refactoring, code checking, and more. You will also discover some other features that help you run, debug, unit test, and source control your code. Finally, you will see how some IDEs have features that are meant for scientific Python and creating data science applications. By the end of this course, you will know and understand how IDEs can help you be a more productive developer.

- [Turning Wireframes into Prototypes with Midjourney](https://www.pluralsight.com/courses/turning-wireframes-into-prototypes-midjourney)
  Creating a prototype from a wireframe can be a time-consuming process, but with Midjourney, it becomes a breeze. In this course, Turning Wireframes into Prototypes with Midjourney, you’ll learn how to transform your wireframes into prototypes using Generative AI. First, you’ll explore how to upload and prepare your wireframes for Midjourney. Next, you’ll discover how to create precise prompts that guide the AI model in generating a prototype that meets your design requirements which allows you to iterate and experiment at a much faster rate. Finally, you’ll learn how to refine the output and make the final adjustments to complete your prototype. By the end of this course, you’ll have the skills needed to rapidly prototype your designs with Midjourney.

- [Object Detection Recognition and Tracking](https://www.pluralsight.com/courses/object-detection-recognition-tracking)
  Computer vision applications can automate and enhance the analysis and interpretation of visual data (images/videos) beyond human capabilities. In this course, Object Detection Recognition and Tracking, you’ll learn to create an image classifier using Tensorflow. First, you’ll explore how neural networks are used for image classification. Next, you’ll learn how to create an image classifier with different levels of accuracy. Finally, you’ll learn about three different types of neural networks. When you’re finished with this course, you’ll have the skills and knowledge of computer vision for object detection recognition and tracking needed to create an image classifier.

- [Big Data: Executive Briefing](https://www.pluralsight.com/courses/big-data-executive-briefing)
  Making business decisions is a serious matter that must be done based on insights obtained from data—the more data the merrier. In this course, Big Data: Executive Briefing, you will be exposed to a high level overview of why big data matters to your organization. First, you will learn why making business decisions based on insights from large amounts of data matters so much for businesses. Next, you will explore what big data is, including the different types of big data. Finally, you will discover some of the platforms and projects that are available to process big data. When you’re finished with this course, you’ll have the knowledge required to identify how big data can be leveraged within your company to gain insights that can give you a competitive advantage.

- [Querying JSON, XML, and Temporal Data with T-SQL](https://www.pluralsight.com/courses/querying-json-xml-temporal-data-tsql)
  Querying structured data is the most common scenario with SQL Server. However, there are cases where the schema is not known up front or more flexibility is needed. Additionally, sometimes it is required to know the value of a particular field at a specific point in time. In this course, Querying JSON, XML, and Temporal Data with T-SQL, you’ll gain the ability to use JSON and XML to store, modify, and query semi-structured data. First, you’ll learn how to work with JSON in SQL Server. Next, you’ll discover how to work with XML. Finally, you’ll explore how to retrieve values at any point in time with temporal tables. When you’re finished with this course, you’ll have the skills and knowledge of JSON, XML, and temporal tables needed to work with semi-structured data and historic data in SQL Server. Software required: Microsoft SQL Server.

- [Getting Started with Enterprise Search Using Apache Solr](https://www.pluralsight.com/courses/enterprise-search-using-apache-solr)
  Search is one of the most misunderstood functionalities in the IT industry. Even further, Enterprise Search used to be neither for the faint of heart, nor for those with a thin wallet. However, since the introduction of Apache Solr, the name of the game has changed. Apache Solr brings high quality Enterprise Search to the masses. Don’t leave home without it!

- [.NET 6: The Big Picture](https://www.pluralsight.com/courses/dot-net-6-big-picture)
  If the coding skills that you've developed over your career are specialized tools in your arsenal, it doesn't hurt to have a multi-tool like .NET 6 at the front for daily use. This free, open-source developer platform includes a multitude of it's own helpful tools, and can help you create on most any device. In this course, .NET 6 Big Picture, you’ll learn how .NET 6 can help you build your ideas optimized for web, mobile, desktop, games, and IoT. First, you’ll explore why you should use .NET 6. Next, you’ll discover what’s available in the .NET 6 ecosystem. Finally, you’ll learn which are the types of applications that can be built using .NET. When you’re finished with this course, you’ll have the understanding of .NET 6 to know how it can allow you to develop amazing applications..

- [Image Generation with OpenAI ChatGPT](https://www.pluralsight.com/courses/image-generation-openai-chatgpt)
  OpenAI's GPT-4o model and DALL-E image generation are now deeply integrated into ChatGPT, opening up powerful new creative workflows. In this course, Image Generation with OpenAI ChatGPT, you'll learn to design, iterate, and refine high-quality images and even generate short videos. First, you'll explore how GPT-4o enhances prompt fidelity and multimodal interaction. Next, you'll walk through live image editing, inpainting, and multi-turn refinement directly in the chat. Then, you'll try image-to-image generation and see how to use your own images as inputs. Finally, you'll review best practices for ethical publishing and responsible attribution. When you're finished, you’ll be ready to create polished AI visuals and integrate image generation into your real-world projects.

- [Computer Vision: Executive Briefing](https://www.pluralsight.com/courses/computer-vision-executive-briefing)
  Vision is arguably the most important sense for humans. Imagine if we could make machines “see” and interact with the world around them with close-to-human accuracy. Well, with the advances in Computer Vision and Deep Learning we can. In this course, Computer Vision: Executive Briefing, you will see a high level overview of what computer vision is all about. Frist, you will learn why Computer Vision matters. Next, you will see how it works. Finally, you will discover why it is changing the world. By the end of this course, you will gain a new understanding on how Computer Vision can enhance your existing products and services.

- [Microsoft Azure Developer: Implementing Data Lake Storage Gen2](https://www.pluralsight.com/courses/microsoft-azure-data-lake-storage-gen2-implementing)
  Data lakes are used to hold vast amounts of data, a must when working with Big Data. In this course, Microsoft Azure Developer: Implementing Data Lake Storage Gen2, you will learn foundational knowledge and gain the ability to work with a large and HDFS-compliant data repository in Microsoft Azure. First, you will figure out how to ingest data. Next, you will discover how to manage and work with your Big Data. Finally, you will explore how to run jobs using a Hadoop cluster, using platforms like Spark with the use of the ABFS driver. When you're finished with this course, you will have the skills and knowledge of work with large data repositories in Microsoft's cloud, everything needed to build solutions at scale to help you discover trends and insights.

- [Gemini: Prompt Engineering for Business Professionals](https://www.pluralsight.com/courses/gemini-prompt-engineering-business-professionals)
  There are many business tasks like report writing, data analysis, and project planning that are very time-intensive for humans but that can be done quickly by AI. In this course, Gemini: Prompt Engineering for Business Professionals, you’ll learn the art of prompt engineering for business professionals. First, you’ll explore how to construct natural language prompts tailored for common business tasks such as report writing, data analysis, and project planning. Next, you’ll discover how to leverage advanced features like long-form response generation. Finally, you’ll learn how to improve responses through multi-turn conversations. When you’re finished with this course, you’ll have the skills and knowledge of prompt engineering for business professionals needed to improve your productivity and enhance the quality of your work.

- [Image Generation with Midjourney](https://www.pluralsight.com/courses/image-generation-midjourney)
  AI-generated images are revolutionizing creativity and content creation. In this course, Image Generation with Midjourney, you’ll learn how to generate stunning images using only your imagination and the Midjourney platform. First, you’ll craft effective prompts, apply parameters like aspect ratio and chaos, and explore the newest Midjourney features with hands-on demos. Next, you’ll also understand how to use AI responsibly. Finally, you’ll learn how to create responsibly by evaluating ethical considerations and applying best practices for inclusive, transparent AI-generated content. By the end of this single module, you’ll be ready to create and iterate on visuals like a pro.

- [How to Start with Microsoft Azure Data Explorer](https://www.pluralsight.com/courses/microsoft-azure-data-explorer-starting)
  Data gives you insights, helps you predict trends and discover anomalies, and gives you a competitive advantage. In this course, How to Start with Microsoft Azure Data Explorer, you'll learn the foundational knowledge needed to ingest, query, analyze, and visualize large amounts of data with Azure Data Explorer. First, you'll understand the architecture of Data Explorer. Next, you'll learn how create and scale infrastructure, ingest data, and query using the Kusto Query Language, also known as KQL. Finally, you'll learn how to visualize data from within ADX or integrating with a third-party product like Power BI, Grafana, Redash, Tableau, Sisense, and any other platform that uses ODBC and JDBC. When you're finished with this course, you'll have the skills and knowledge required to analyze all kinds of data, including log and telemetry data, using Azure Data Explorer - Microsoft's interactive Big Data platform.

- [Importing Data: Python Data Playbook](https://www.pluralsight.com/courses/python-importing-data-playbook)
  Python is one of the most powerful and widely used languages to work with data. In this course, Importing Data: Python Data Playbook, you will learn foundational knowledge and gain the ability to import data from multiple different file formats, including: text, tabular data, binary formats as well as from databases. First, you will learn how to import text and CSV files. Next, you will discover how to import data from JSON, XML, SAS, Stata, HDF5, Matlab, Pickle files, and more. Finally, you will explore how to import relational data from databases, including: SQLite, MySQL, and PostgreSQL. When you're finished with this course, you will have the skills and knowledge of importing data into Python needed to analyze, visualize, and in general work with data.

- [Feature Selection and Extraction in Microsoft Azure](https://www.pluralsight.com/courses/microsoft-azure-feature-selection-extraction)
  It is no secret that Data Scientists spend a very large proportion of their time preparing data. In this course, Feature Selection and Extraction in Microsoft Azure, you'll gain the ability to prepare your data for use in your machine learning models. First, you'll learn how to extract features from raw data, including non-text formats. Next, you'll discover how to normalize features, converting your data to a common scale without distorting your data. Finally, you'll explore how to select those features that are more relevant to your model. When you're finished with this course, you'll have the skills and knowledge of feature extraction, normalization, and selection needed to prepare your data. Software required: Azure ML Studio classic.

- [Track Deep Work Time with RescueTime](https://www.pluralsight.com/courses/track-deep-work-time-rescuetime)
  Too many professionals end their week feeling drained but unsure what they actually accomplished. In this course, Track Deep Work Time with RescueTime, you’ll learn to measure and improve your deep work habits using real-time productivity data. First, you’ll explore how to set clear focus time goals using RescueTime. Next, you’ll discover how to review your weekly analytics and identify where time is truly going. Finally, you’ll learn how to adjust your schedule and time blocks based on that insight. When you’re finished with this course, you’ll have the skills and confidence to align your time with what matters most—and reclaim control of your focus.

- [Introduction to Amazon Q Business](https://www.pluralsight.com/courses/introduction-amazon-q-business)
  Generative AI is a game changer, but enterprises need more. They need Gen AI on their data. In this course, Introduction to Amazon Q Business, you’ll learn how to Create, configure, and use a custom Amazon Q Business assistant. First, you’ll learn how to create a Q Business assistant. Next, you’ll discover the ways in which you can connect it to enterprise data sources. Finally, you’ll learn how to utilize the assistant for trend analysis and business insights. When you’re finished with this course, you’ll have the skills and knowledge of Amazon Q Business needed to unleash the power of generative AI in the workplace with Amazon Q Business.

- [OpenAI Assistant API](https://www.pluralsight.com/courses/openai-assistants-api)
  AI assistants and chatbots have been a topic of great interest for many years. However, good AI assistants have also been really hard to implement and deploy… until now. The AI Assistants API from OpenAI allows creating powerful AI assistants that are capable of performing a variety of tasks that are really hard to code using traditional coding mechanisms. In this course, OpenAI Assistants API, you’ll learn how to develop powerful assistants that can be deployed in your applications that can interact using natural language. First, you’ll learn how to create and retrieve assistants. Next, you’ll learn how to create threads, run, and retrieve responses. Next, you’ll learn how to call functions that can be used by your assistant. Finally, you will learn how to upload content that your assistant can use for its responses. When you’re finished with this course, you’ll have the skills and knowledge of the OpenAI Assistants API needed to create a powerful AI assistant that receives prompts in natural languages and provides excellent responses using natural language.

- [Improved Writing with GPT-4.5](https://www.pluralsight.com/courses/improved-writing-gpt-4-5)
  GPT-4.5 takes writing assistance to the next level, unlocking new and advanced writing capabilities. In this course, Improved Writing with GPT-4.5, you’ll learn how to write better content, faster. First, you’ll explore the key improvements that make GPT-4.5 feel more natural, intelligent, and reliable. Next, you’ll discover practical applications of these advancements to create content that requires less revisions and feels genuinely human. Finally, you’ll understand the model’s limitations. When you’re finished with this course, you’ll have the skills and knowledge of GPT-4.5 needed to produce high-quality content efficiently and effectively.

- [Image Generation with DALL-E 3](https://www.pluralsight.com/courses/dall-e-3-image-generation)
  Image-based generative AI allows the creation of stunning and useful images via prompts. In this course, Image Generation with DALL-E, you’ll learn how to harness the power of generative AI for image creation. First, you’ll learn how to create images. Next, you’ll explore how to craft effective prompts to influence image properties like composition, style, color, and lighting. Then, you’ll discover methods to generate images tailored for marketing tasks. Finally, you’ll learn how to produce images for mockup and product presentations. By the end of this course, you’ll have the skills and knowledge needed to efficiently generate professional images using DALL-E.

- [Understanding Databases with SQLAlchemy 1: Python Data Playbook](https://www.pluralsight.com/courses/python-sqlalchemy-playbook-understanding-databases)
  Databases are an integral part of data science, and every programmer that interacts with data needs to be able to work with a database. In this course, Understanding Databases with SQLAlchemy 1: Python Data Playbook, you will learn foundational knowledge to work with databases using SQLAlchemy. First, you will see how to perform queries. Next, you will discover how to create databases and tables and populate them with data. Finally, you will explore how to manipulate the data you inserted and queried. When you are finished with this course, you will have the skills and knowledge of interacting with databases needed to successfully work with your database using Python with SQLAlchemy.

- [.NET Performance Optimization & Profiling with JetBrains dotTrace](https://www.pluralsight.com/courses/dotnet-performance-optimization-profiling-jetbrains-dottrace)
  Customers are not patient and never in history has your website or application's performance mattered as much as today. According to Amazon, every 100 millisecond increase in load time decreased sales by 1%. In 2013 that could mean as much as 740 million dollars! Site and application speed is mentally associated with reliability, credibility, security, and stability. Developers are often unaware of how to optimize performance properly. Even worse, performance becomes a priority only when it is unacceptable or, in the best case, annoying. Learn how to profile, identify hotspot bottlenecks, and optimize .NET code to create fast and efficient applications with JetBrains dotTrace.

- [Enterprise Search: Executive Briefing](https://www.pluralsight.com/courses/enterprise-search-executive-briefing)
  For a company to remain competitive and efficient it needs to have systems in place to better gain insights from collected data. However, having the best data is of little to no use if you, and those within your company, cannot find the data you need. In this executive briefing, Enterprise Search, you’ll learn what you need to know about Enterprise Search. First, you’ll explore the many reasons why you should use Enterprise Search. Next, you’ll discover how it is used in the real world in ways that you didn’t even imagine possible. Finally, you’ll learn how it works under the hood at a high level. When you’re finished with this briefing, you’ll have the skills and knowledge required to identify how Enterprise Search can benefit you.

- [Creating Your First Big Data Hadoop Cluster Using Cloudera CDH](https://www.pluralsight.com/courses/big-data-hadoop-cluster-cloudera-cdh)
  "Ask Bigger Questions" is Cloudera's vision. You may not be familiar with this phrase, but you're likely familiar with "Knowledge is Power". To get knowledge you need to analyze and understand huge amounts of structured and unstructured data - Big Data. In this course, Creating Your First Big Data Hadoop Cluster Using Cloudera CDH, you'll get started on Big Data with Cloudera, taking your first steps with Hadoop using a pseudo cluster and then moving on to set up our own cluster using CDH, which stands for Cloudera's Distribution including Hadoop. First, you'll explore the case for Hadoop, Big Data, and Cloudera. Next, you'll learn about the fast track to Big Data with Cloudera's QuickStart VM and you'll also learn how to create a visualization environment with VirtualBox. Then, you'll discover how to create a Linux clean cluster with CentOS. Finally, you'll follow the steps to install and configure a cluster with the help of Cloudera Manager. By the end of this course, you'll have a Hadoop cluster, and you'll be ready to start your journey to Big Data.

- [Deploying Hadoop with Cloudera CDH to AWS](https://www.pluralsight.com/courses/deploying-hadoop-cloudera-cdh-aws)
  Many years ago, hardware cost was pretty steep. It was not unexpected that a project with large amounts of data required 7 figures worth of hardware just to get started. But times have changed, and with cloud services it is possible now to store data cheaply and spin up as many servers with your desired specs to process this data with all kinds of available machines and get the answers that you need. In this course, Deploying Hadoop with Cloudera CDH to AWS, you will learn how to deploy Hadoop in the cloud. First you'll learn about some key topics. Then, you'll learn how to perform deployment manually. Finally, you'll learn about a specialized tool called Cloudera Director that helps automate deployments either for transient or for long running clusters. You will also learn about some differences between AWS and Azure/GCE. These differences can be important if you are working on a different platform, but by no means are they blockers for someone already familiar with their current platform. By the end of this course, you will be able to better manage your cloud needs.

- [Getting Started with JSON in C# Using Json.NET](https://www.pluralsight.com/courses/json-csharp-jsondotnet-getting-started)
  The rising popularity of the web, mainly around JavaScript related technologies, has given JSON a great deal of importance over other data interchange formats, like XML. JSON is a lightweight, human-readable, efficient, and easy to understand data interchange format. JSON stands for JavaScript Object Notation. If you are a C# or .NET developer who needs to work with JSON, or even understand what JSON is, then this course is for you. In this course, we will learn how to serialize, deserialize, use LINQ To JSON, improve serialization performance, BSON, create schemas, validate JSON, and, in general, work with Json.NET, a popular, high performance, free, and open source JSON framework for .NET.

- [Image Generation with Midjourney](https://www.pluralsight.com/courses/midjourney-image-generation)
  Image-based generative AI allows the creation of stunning and useful images via prompts. In this course, Image Generation with Midjourney, you’ll learn how to harness the power of generative AI for image creation. First, you’ll learn how to create images. Next, you’ll explore how to craft effective prompts to influence image properties like composition, style, color, and lighting.. Then, you’ll discover methods to generate images tailored for marketing tasks. Finally, you’ll learn how to produce images for mockup and product presentations. By the end of this course, you’ll have the skills and knowledge needed to efficiently generate professional images using Midjourney.

- [Implementing Search in .NET Applications](https://www.pluralsight.com/courses/implementing-search-dotnet-applications)
  Get the information on how to make understanding and implementing search a breeze, saving you hundreds of hours of research. In this course, Implementing Search in .NET Applications, you'll be learning how to set up your own search engine and how to interact with your search engine from your code. Also, you'll learn how to index documents and then retrieve them by querying search engine. Finally, you'll learn how to improve relevancy and get better results by learning some additional techniques to improve the searching experience. By the end of this course, you will be able to implement a search API in C# with SolrNet.

- [Julia 1: Getting Started](https://www.pluralsight.com/courses/julia-getting-started)
  Every language has pros and cons... but what if I tell you that there is a language that was created with the experience of many other programming languages, with performance in mind, and that is able to provide all kinds of features available in general programming languages all the way to languages designed for scientific computing and Data Science? Well, that's what Julia is all about. In this course, Julia 1: Getting Started, you'll learn foundational knowledge required to be a Julia programmer. First, you'll learn how to set up your Julia development environment. Next, you'll discover how to define variables and use data types as well as control program flow. That will be followed by learning how to create functions, methods, and modules, as well as how to work with files. Finally, you'll see how to find packages that will help you build any application you can dream of. When you're finished with this course, you'll have the skills and knowledge required to call yourself a Julia coder. Software required: Julia.

- [OpenAI Chat Completions API](https://www.pluralsight.com/courses/openai-chat-completions-api)
  Using natural language to ask questions and get reasonable and useful responses has always been a challenge, until now. GPT models are now capable of receiving prompts in natural language and responding in amazing ways, what we know as Generative AI. In this course, OpenAI Chat Completions API, you’ll gain the ability to use the Chat Completions endpoint that allow you to create applications that “understand” and can reply using natural language. First, you’ll explore the available GPT models with their corresponding characteristics, advantages, and things to look out for. Next, you’ll discover the Chat Completions API along with all the available parameters and how they affect responses. Finally, you’ll learn how to create better prompts to get even better responses. When you’re finished with this course, you’ll have the skills and knowledge of the OpenAI API needed to create an application that receives prompts in natural languages and provides excellent responses using generative AI.

- [Preparing a Production Hadoop Cluster with Cloudera: Databases](https://www.pluralsight.com/courses/hadoop-cloudera-cluster-databases)
  Big Data is a natural evolution of data analysis, scaling beyond the limits of conventional databases. However, this does not mean that databases are dead. On the contrary, they are still an important part of a Hadoop cluster and used to store all kinds of information by multiple services. In this course, Preparing a Production Hadoop Cluster with Cloudera: Databases, you'll learn how to setup databases for Cloudera CDH and install a production grade cluster using Cloudera's Installation Path B. First, you'll discover how to select, initialize, and install a supported database. Next, you'll explore how to configure a database with Cloudera's recommended settings, and how to create databases with CDH services. Finally, you'll learn how to complete a CDH deployment. By the end of this course, you'll be able to deploy a production grade cluster.

- [Scaling Agile for Enterprise: Daikibo](https://www.pluralsight.com/courses/daikibo-scaling-agile-enterprise)
  Agile brings many advantages to developers, among them a visible development process with a faster time-to-market and quick feedback loops that help raise quality. However, for enterprise businesses, Agile can be very complicated to scale properly. The answer? Daikibo: Agile at scale that works! In this course, Scaling Agile for Enterprise: Daikibo, you'll learn how to implement Agile at scale using this technology. First, you'll learn how to understand the methodologies and frameworks that make up Daikibo. Next, you'll learn how to create teams and groups that scale. Finally, you'll learn about the Daikibo pipeline and the user story life-cycle, going from concept to commitment to feedback to production. By the end of this course, you'll have a better understanding on how to scale an agile project for enterprise using Daikibo.

- [Take Control of Your Big Data with HUE in Cloudera CDH](https://www.pluralsight.com/courses/big-data-hue-cloudera-cdh)
  Hadoop is a very complex ecosystem with a potentially pretty steep learning curve to get started from scratch. To make adoption easier, several distributions have been created to integrate all key projects and give a turn-key approach, one of the most popular and complete being Cloudera CDH. In this course, Take Control of Your Big Data with HUE in Cloudera CDH, you'll learn how to leverage Hadoop using a relatable data source. First, you'll explore how to work with the major components of a cluster. Next, you'll discover how to load data into your cluster and how to analyze it with query editors. Finally, you'll go one level beyond with interactive dashboards using HUE. By the end of this course, you'll be able to load, process, and analyze your big data using HUE in Cloudera CDH.

- [Using Git with a GUI](https://www.pluralsight.com/courses/using-git-with-gui)
  There is no doubt Git is taking over the world of source control management, mainly in open source but growing rapidly in enterprise as well. The problem usually lies in that Git is not for the faint of heart as it comes with a steep learning curve - it is hard to get started. In this course, I will help you smooth out the learning curve, understand Git’s mechanics and branching model, and in general be productive much quicker with the aid of a great free tool: Atlassian SourceTree.
